google "python read pdf xfa"

https://github.com/AF-VCD/pdf-xfa-tools/blob/master/README.md

To read XFA data from a PDF in Python, the recommended approach is to extract the embedded XML data and parse it separately, as most general-purpose PDF libraries do not directly support XFA forms. The XFA specification is proprietary and requires specialized tools for full support. 
Stack Overflow
 
 
Recommended Tools
pdf-xfa-tools: A collection of Python scripts on GitHub that specifically includes xfa-extract.py and helper scripts (xfaTools.py) designed to pull XFA data from PDFs and save it as XML files. This uses the pikepdf and BeautifulSoup libraries.
Commercial libraries: Commercial options like Aspose.PDF for Python via .NET offer specific methods for working with XFA forms, including conversion to AcroForms or extraction of data. The Foxit PDF SDK for Python also explicitly lists XFA form support in its features. 
GitHub
 
 
General Approach (using open-source libraries)
The data within an XFA form is stored as an XML stream (or array of streams) within the PDF's internal dictionary structure. 
Stack Overflow
 
Extract the XML: You can use a low-level PDF library like pikepdf or PyPDF2 to access the raw PDF objects and extract the XFA data stream.
Using pikepdf, you can navigate to the XFA dictionary via pdf.Root.AcroForm.XFA.
With PyPDF2 (now pypdf), you can use a helper function to find the '/XFA' key within the resolved objects.
Parse the XML: Once extracted, the data is a standard XML string. Use a dedicated XML parsing library like Python's built-in xml library or lxml to parse the structure and extract the form field values.
Process the Data: The parsed XML can then be processed like any other XML data in Python. 
Stack Overflow
 
Example using pdf-xfa-tools
The easiest method for many is using the purpose-built tools from the pdf-xfa-tools GitHub repository:
Install the dependencies:
bash
pip install pikepdf beautifulsoup4
Use the xfa-extract.py script to automate the extraction process and save the XFA data to an XML file. 
This automates the low-level PDF navigation and provides the XFA content in a usable XML format. 
GitHub


 ----------------------
 
 Gemini
 
 I can see the technical metadata and the placeholder text of the file you uploaded, but I cannot view the actual form content.

The text indicates that this is a dynamic XFA (XML Forms Architecture) PDF. These types of files require specific software to render their contents properly:


Adobe Reader/Acrobat: The file explicitly recommends using the latest version of Adobe Reader for Windows, Mac, or Linux to view the "proper contents".


Incompatible Viewers: Standard web browsers and many mobile PDF viewers often display this "Please wait..." message because they lack the necessary engine to process XFA data.

---

Are there any command line tools, including from Adobe to do a bulk conversion of the dynamic PDFs to static PDFs ?

Gemini said
Yes, there are several command-line tools that can perform bulk conversion of dynamic XFA PDFs into static PDFs. This process is commonly called "flattening".

Because dynamic XFA is a proprietary Adobe format, some of the most reliable tools are commercial, but there are also clever open-source workarounds.

1. Adobe Acrobat (via Command Line)
If you already have Adobe Acrobat Reader or Pro installed, you can use its built-in print-to-file capability via the command line to "print" the dynamic PDF into a static one.

The Command (Windows):

DOS
AcroRd32.exe /t "C:\path\to\dynamic.pdf" "Microsoft Print to PDF"
How it works: The /t switch instructs Adobe to print the file to a specific printer without opening the GUI.

Limitation: It is difficult to control the output filename programmatically with this method, and it may leave an Acrobat process running in the background.

2. Datalogics PDF Forms Flattener (Dedicated Tool)
Datalogics offers a purpose-built command-line tool specifically for this task. It is one of the most reliable options for high-volume, professional workflows.

The Command:

Bash
PDFFormsFlattener --input dynamic_form.pdf --output static_form.pdf
Key Advantage: It natively understands the XFA logic and will render the pages exactly as they appear in Acrobat. It also allows you to import data (XML/XDP) as part of the conversion.

3. Ghostscript (Open Source Alternative)
Ghostscript is a powerful tool for PDF manipulation. While it historically struggled with XFA, recent versions (especially 10.x and later) have improved their ability to render these files into static PDF/A formats.

The Command:

Bash
gs -dSAFER -dBATCH -dNOPAUSE -sDEVICE=pdfwrite -sOutputFile=static.pdf dynamic.pdf
Note: If the file is "Pure XFA" (like your chp form.pdf), Ghostscript might still only see the "Please wait" page unless it is a "Hybrid XFA" (which contains a static backup layer).

4. PDFtk (The PDF Toolkit)
PDFtk is a favorite for command-line PDF management. It has a specific command for dealing with XFA entries.

The Command:

Bash
pdftk dynamic.pdf output static.pdf drop_xfa
The Catch: drop_xfa literally removes the XFA data layer. If your PDF is a "Hybrid" form, this will leave the static version behind. However, if it is a "Pure XFA" form, this might result in a blank or "Please wait" page because the data that creates the form is removed.

5. Headless Chrome/Firefox (The "Modern" Workaround)
Since modern browsers like Chrome and Firefox have built-in XFA engines, you can use them in headless mode to "print" the document to a static PDF.

Chrome Command:

Bash
chrome --headless --disable-gpu --print-to-pdf="static.pdf" "file:///C:/path/to/dynamic.pdf"
Pros: This is free and highly effective at rendering the dynamic layout correctly.

Cons: You may need to add a delay to the command to ensure the "dynamic" content has finished loading before the print occurs.

Recommendation for Bulk Conversion
If you are looking for a scriptable, free solution that handles the "Pure XFA" content of your CHP form, the Headless Chrome method is typically the most successful. You can easily wrap that command in a simple .bat or .sh script to loop through an entire folder:

Example Batch Script (Windows):

DOS
for %f in (*.pdf) do "C:\Path\To\chrome.exe" --headless --print-to-pdf="%~nf_static.pdf" "file:///%~ff"

